Constructed emotion detection model: synchronized with socially agreed emotions based on a large self-reported emotion dataset

Sanghyub John Lee1   • JongYoon Lim2   • Leo Paas1   • Ho Seok Ahn2  

Abstract
Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) are used increasingly for emotion detection in texts. Emotion datasets proposed in previous studies can be classified as self-reported emotion datasets and annotator-rated emotion datasets. According to the theory of constructed emotion [6], emotions are not an innate human aspect, but rather a unique set of sentimental categories which individuals develop based on their personal experiences. Therefore, individual emotions (self-reported emotion datasets) and socially agreed emotions (annotator-rated emotion datasets) may differ in its characteristics. Also, emotions evaluated by only a few (usually three to seven) annotators are susceptible to bias and may also lack relevancy. Eleven datasets were tested and compared to show the limitations of the existing emotion datasets. To overcome such limitations, we propose a quantitative Self-Reported (Se-Re) emotion dataset (n= 3,654,544). Furthermore, we propose the method of transfer learning with an integrated annotator-rated emotion dataset based on the large self-reported emotion dataset, the Se-Re, to synchronize to socially agreed emotions.
Keywords Emotion datasets • Emotion detection model • Transformer-based language model • Constructed emotion theory 
